George: Want to say, like, share the story?
George: Yes.
George: Alright, guys, couple of announcements. What are we pointing out? What's wrong?
George: There's 2 seats right here with agent. Yeah, I hated sitting there yesterday that it's the air just
George: okay. They're from Europe. It's a little cold in there. Alright
George: couple of announcements for those of you who missed either of Jake's sessions yesterday we recorded them. I highly recommend you. Watch them before the end of the week, even if you missed part of it. Because that was all really, really good stuff.
George: And yeah, watch it. You can watch it on 1.5 X, just make sure that you watch it, because it's stuff that we're going to assume, you know, now, because we took time to do it, and I don't want you to fall behind. I think 5 companies missed at least one. So make sure that's almost half of you. Make sure that you watch it and catch up.
George: Second, the why before the why good job, I heard Feedback that you guys loved that. We took the gloves off, which is awesome. Neil's gonna box. You guys even more feedback from that in combination with the winter madness, reflection, forms. Is it all good that we went so hard, though, like everyone's living, to see another day. Everyone's feeling scattered.
George: Yeah, Annie.
George: sort of
George: yes, I think that would be really nice if someone wants to just make a folder in docs and files that way. You can read each other's. I think that'd be great in the Hq. Yeah, there were a lot of you who can learn from the others, because a lot of you had really great ones. Some of you still need to work on stuff so definitely review your more than that that's a great point, Liliana, and I will say, like, if there was anyone's presentation that you were particularly like influenced or impressed by
George: optimum.
George: unpack their process, get their feedback, get their like thoughts like you all clearly want to help each other.
George: So if you haven't reached out to your fellow like class about like
George: how to be better about some aspect of sourcing like interviews or conducting them. Some of you need help asking the right questions like, there's so much you can do to help each other.
George: So I want to see a lot more of that in the second half.
George: So today I'm glad you guys liked the gloves off, because today we have planned 2 workshops that are meant to kind of just like smack some sense into you all, and like be like really harsh. So just. I want to give you that preface.
George: I don't want your feelings to be hurt. The whole point. We've not given that breakfast in the past. We've heard people's feelings, so we'll give you the story in one second. Jake is here to deliver his own version of a workshop that's from Merch, the Turkish man that's Neil's best friend that we were talking about in the 12 by 12.
George: He's awesome. He's building a business, so we were like, let's get someone who's actually implementing this in real time to not only give the content, but add your own take. And Jake has raised a lot of money like we talked about, but he also understands the other side of it, and how you need to build a great business in order to do that. So it's really the end goal for all of you is to have a fundraising journey like Jake's. So that's why I'm really glad that he's going to be able to add that context to Mert's
George: workshop on fundability. We're going to go through how to make a fundable business, and at the end we'll go a little bit more into fundraising in general. So the 1st part is not going to be about Jake's fundraising journey, and if we don't get to any part of his fundraising journey that you want to hear. You can ask him in his founder story tonight. The real purpose of these 2 h is to understand how to reach fundability. And we actually have a whole framework for you that Mert has built out
George: the story behind this talk. We've done it. This is probably like the 7th time we've delivered this now. But the 1st time was in Jake's cohort
George: in 2022 in the summer. Do you want to tell the story? Oh, yeah, no, he is in the summer cohort. So it was in in the summer in September. So we were going to do a fundraising talk with Mert and Neil. They all get on the call. This is the week after Mentor madness, just like you guys.
George: we weren't in person either. Their cohort is also the reason that we meet up so that we can deliver this harsh stuff in person. They get on the call. They're ready to learn from Mert and Neil about fundraising. And you know what happened. Mert was an eir. Yeah.
George: and he and I had a call like 15 min before the fundraising workshop we were gonna do.
George: And we were talking about each company because we had gotten the mentor madness feedback. We had had the weekly sessions and debriefs. We got your reflection forms stuff like that. And when we looked at all the information
George: we were looking at each other, we were like, all right, like we could teach them fundraising.
George: or we could tell them the truth.
George: And that, said the vast majority of businesses are not ready or invest.
George: and if they don't know that, then we're kind of lying to them about trying to get them ready to fundraise, because there's other things you need to do 1st before they can even have that conversation.
George: So we felt really good. We're like, Oh, you're gonna love like our authenticity, you know. Like, let's get in there. And then Jake was a part of the class. So I'm gonna kick it to you for how it was received. We love their authenticity and how they got in there.
George: It's a lot, I mean, it's a lot. I I think, that like we'll work through this. I want to be as transparent as possible. Let's run
George: this similar to yesterday. So
George: keep it relatively open ended. But we have slides.
George: We yeah, we got 5. We got slides for later today, too.
George: we had to huddle as a class afterwards. Full transparency recovery call with, just you guys. Yeah. So they kicked us out of the 12 by 12. Yeah, I don't. We went too hard. Yeah, I I seriously, I don't. I doubt that that would be the case. But
George: this week used to be remote.
George: and they made it in person because of this talk. So
George: I think that like that was the most tangible impact. That's true. That's very true. Yeah, about that. And so
George: yeah, I
George: I don't know.
George: Yeah. So Mert ended up putting structure to what he and Neil kind of riffed off that day. We've done it ever since. I will preface. We do want to hear your questions, you guys. Can. They can kind of interrupt by raising their hand. I want to challenge you guys, since this one has a lot more material to get through, try and keep your questions that are only relevant to your business till the end, or maybe after.
George: only ask questions that might be about the content are relevant for everybody just for the sake of time today. But I also do. I feel bad. I have to keep reminding people. But like there's a decorum thing again.
George: So if you're on a device. And you're multitasking. You're texting, you're emailing, you're checking slack. You're doing something else.
George: Please just go to another room and watch the recording later. If you need to do something else. Yeah, either here or you're not I I don't. I don't really have an ego around all this like yesterday, like I don't know, don't really care about that. What I will say again. And I've been trying to. You sold 6% of your company. You didn't do it to check slack like. So it's like I can probably wait
George: for this is gonna be the one of the
George: things that we do where
George: it's just probably important trying to take a step back and take inventory.
George: Cool?
George: All right. Yeah. All right. So yeah, there are going to be 2 types of you at the end of this talk. They're going to be the type that decide to live in a dream and are going to have severe cognitive dissonance and are not going to implement anything either until it is too late, or
George: until, like, you know, nick of time, type of situation, they're gonna be people that. Take it. That's that's kind of the object reality. But before any of that nice to meet all of you, let's get into it. So this is where we're gonna have time. Throughout the course of today, I I didn't totally know about this. But like, let's let's approach because I'm here
George: through the founder story and afterwards. So if there are things like for these kind of quick irons out, one on one or like follow ups that are going to be a bit more substantive that we want to do later on. I want to be available with that, like my goal, like I mentioned, is providing tactile value to where you are at your point in the business. What will be frustrating to me is a lack of clarity of thought or direction is what I would say. So if you know what you want to talk about, let's do it. But like
George: and
George: but just understand why you're coming to me. If it's just right, let's do it. We can grow. But like, if it is to drive taxable value, do a little bit of thought foreign such that like I can actually like. Do what you want me to do for you again, if it's to receive it. That's totally cool. Alright!
George: The number one takeaway that I had from tech store is the cavalry cavalry is not coming, it doesn't exist. What I will say is, I am an end of one. But all you can do within this is, have a bias towards action. That's my philosophy. If you want to go about it a different way. That's totally fine. Everything that I'm saying right here. It's colored by my own personal experience. So this is an end of one. I'm speaking from my own point of bias.
George: and it's great that you don't take it or leave it. But the reality is, if you leave it, you're accountable for it. The good news is, you're accountable for your actions either way, so it doesn't really matter. No skin off my back.
George: The framing for this talk is empathy particularly empathy, as it relates to raising venture capital.
George: And so
George: this is
George: I think that people walk in.
George: They're people, too. They're working a job. They're accountable to
George: Kpis the same way that you're going to be accountable to Kpis. And most importantly, they are experts. They're subject matter experts. No one's gonna come like if someone came to you and was like.
George: I have an idea, or I am an Airbnb host. I am
George: doing everything that I possibly can do to communicate with my customers and to manage them. And I just can't do it anymore. And you're like, that's really great. Where do you? Well, I don't have any houses yet like I'm going to get those houses, and I anticipate that when I get those houses I'm gonna have an issue communicating with those customers you'd be like, you're ridiculous.
George: venture capitalists are experts in business models. They will look at what you are doing. They will understand it better than you. You will sit down. This is my! This is Henry Lamar. Quote. This is the so you say you got a bad one, I can tell you never had one.
George: They're they. You're not bullshitting them. They sit all day, they listen to meetings. They listen to people like you. They understand exactly what you're talking about. Think about it this way. If I, who has no deal flow, can look at everybody's deck and be taught immediately. Hey, is this a thing? Yes. Is this a thing? Yes, is this, they're gonna look at it right away and be able to see through like everybody. I literally have
George: the the pattern. Recognition is the same like the on the Vc side. So what I do is, you all know, for the application process, and Jake's been a part of it is, I actually bring in founders to help evaluate the next class. And it's always interesting to hear their feedback. It's like, Wow, I've never seen it from the other side, but it's so obvious that the vast majority of these like founders are deluding themselves and aren't qualified to even be like, you know what I mean? Yeah. So the Vcs.
George: They see so many of these like in your mind. You're you showing up for their meeting. They've seen a hundred of you.
George: So they know when someone's being real.
George: So that's the key that that's it. And it's like.
George: I think, that also.
George: in in my position a lot of the time I would hear that and be like cool. I'm real.
George: I feel real, but the reality is that you can actually quantify what it is that real means. So
George: here's the way that I do it.
George: We talked about this yesterday. There's what you do. There's a way that you do what you do. You need to have both of those extremely drilled down. We actually got a point again. Like to kind of see how that happens. What I would ask is, I run my business. We have 2. It's a cooking app. We have 2 things that we do. I would ask,
George: what do you do within your business? What are the things that are just foundationally true to you? No matter what
George: this is, the interactive part, you're actually asking the question, yeah, it's not rhetorical.
George: Can you repeat what you want them? What what matters to you? So if it's like, if I were to sit down and be like.
George: how do you guys, how do you guys run what you do? Are there things that you would say are unique to your business, how you operate and how do you bring yourself up?
George: Metric is financing questions, but like reputation
George: functionally, how do you maintain reputation?
George: delivering
George: good good products to customers, interacting with people authentically and honestly.
George: What do you so to get breakdown? Both? Those are 2 different things so like, what do you do to deliver good products to customers? How do you make sure that that's something that you are able to achieve within your business? And then the other was product. That being the product. Let's shut down for a second because we're gonna get to what that means as well.
George: setting very clear expectations of what we're going to deliver. And then
George: like exceeding those expectations that we said.
George: Yeah, I I think, like functionally, that totally 100%.
George: That's him. 15.
George: It's 17. Anyone else have
George: like, what do you mean by what matters here like? Can we unpack the question like, I don't get like there are multiple answers that I can give to this. But like, yeah, so my company, yeah, let's do it this way.
George: all right.
George: But let my company runs on 2 things. Sorry if I put the words on. My company runs on 2 things. We're a cooking app, but it has nothing to do with being a cooking app. It is everything to do with the way that we bring ourselves. We show up on time to meetings, and we uphold verbal commitments.
George: That's it. Everything else comes from those things, but it literally is those things I I can drill down on like my anal respect for time. But the reality is, how many people are in this room? 20, yeah.
George: 25 people.
George: We started, we started at 10 or 5. Today, we collectively wasted 125 min of time
George: that that drives me nuts that's like law, like, think about how much we say we value each other's time. The best way to value each other's time is to kick things off when you say that they're gonna kick things off. And the next is, if I say I'm gonna get something done for you. I don't wanna have to think about that anymore.
George: If someone tells me that they're going to get something done for me, I'm not going to think about that anymore. You're going to get something done for me in a set amount of time. And it's gonna happen now like the amendment to these things is clear, open, honest communication. It's like, if you're going to show up late, if you're not going to be able to get something done. Tell me the absolute earliest that you possibly know, and I never can.
George: because that's when you can actually have a conversation or a conversation about it, as it relates to shipping something or delivering on a verbal commitment. What are the trade offs that we can make to get it done in the original timeframe? Or does it make sense for us to extend that original timeframe?
George: These are all really easy conversations to have when you're operating from some basis of operations in in respect it's like
George: going to be critical
George: to have things that are just true to how you work, that will naturally lend themselves to compounded excellence and growth.
George: It's just for me. Now, yeah, exactly. So, it's like the foundation. This is the foundation of our culture foundation.
George: That's it. That's it I once like I still like will like, I'll toss up like, Hey, here are 20 things that we do exist, and these are like 20 things that we do exist. But the reality is we do, too.
George: We show up on time, and we uphold verbal commitments.
George: and then we leverage tools to deliver value to our customers.
George: That's like
George: everything is in service of that. But, like, how do we actually get that done? Show up on time.
George: deliver a verbal
George: now
George: something that is going to be acting on you. You're going to want to sell down market because you're not going to be able to close the big guys, it's going to be intimidating. The reality is you can charge more.
George: The value of your product is, do not undersell the value of your product. People anchor on price. And you want to make sure that you're actually selling something that is of value to people.
George: And so we're going to again unpack what it means to deliver and drive value for others we're going to talk about why it was difficult, possess my company, to fundraise, to create comprehensive and a comprehensive ability to fundraise. The reality is, though, that you are worth more than you're able to do it. And you're going to do it by creating value.
George: It's it's the only it's the only possible way. Value is not to you. It's not your idea that you love. It is to the people that are willing to pay you money to solve a problem that is harming you
George: if they're struggling with something, and they're willing to pay you money to make progress on their issue.
George: this aggressively police, your time, and the only way to aggressively police your time we talked about this is to limit your spending. The reality is that money within your business is a function of time. You deploy capital to save time. It's like that's all that you're doing. If you pay an employee, you're paying them to do a job that would take you longer to do. You can functionally accomplish anything if given a long enough period of time.
George: So there needs to be a
George: easy and logical reason that you are spending your money and too often it's going to be easy to convince yourself that you can just burn. Oh, well, this makes sense to save money. This makes more sense. We'll get into all that like we have 2 h on on this, basically later. But the reality is
George: right. Now. You have leverage to extend your runway. Do that
George: a week saved now, like
George: you understand how much money you're burning month over month. You were talking about like metrics that you have. You know how much money you're burning month over month, you know when you will be out of money. The only guarantee is that you have the amount of money today in your bank account that you have. If you are able to extend a week now, it's the exact same as extending a week later. But you're going to actually have much more clarity of thought right now than you will later. It's a cognitive bias. And so just making sure that you're locked in
George: any
George: immediate
George: questions. So you said, have value like in your business. Yes, and you're gonna cover this later. No worries. But like, how do you signal value? I guess, for us it's like
George: that is a great question.
George: Well, let's get into that.
George: So
George: how do startups ultimately end up winning? It's through product market fit. What does it mean to have product market fit like we broke this down yesterday in my mind. It it more is that you bring a product to a existing market to an existing market that exhibits a latent demand to spend already and deliver that value.
George: Once you are able to do that
George: you be. This is also again having to do with charging, charging more.
George: doing it in a way that you will actually be able to acquire customers in a more predictable manner. That's it. Game over. The thing is going to be growing better than you would expect. Things to be growing in. Your problems will evolve. Things get better in a startup. They also get more existential. But I guarantee you this from 0 to one to 2 to A, you're going to need to be able to do this. And until you can do this.
George: it's it's worth absolutely nothing.
George: If you want to start up to excuse me if you want to fundraise today, there are 2 preconditions that would say, Allow you to opt out of the talk. One is that you're able to do this. So you're at Breakeven, and you need to raise money immediately to deploy that capital into new in a way that will unlock new revenue streams for your business, because you have evidence that you can already do that with that capital. And this is an evidence.
George: This isn't soft evidence. This is in the form of a financial model that is missing within 5%, 10% is like, but like within 5 or 10%, enabling reasonable growth again at Breakeven and read by reasonable, I mean 10 to 20%. It's really like a venture capital. It's like 20%.
George: The other is you're experiencing hyper.
George: So you need to beef up or staff up college because you've grown 50% month over month for the past 4 to 6 months.
George: if you meet those conditions
George: like, I would say that this is probably irrelevant. What was the number for the past 46? Then
George: call call between 40 and 60%. And I'm not saying, like going from $40 in revenue to, you know, whatever it's like you need to be at between like.
George: surpass 5 to 10 Kmr. And then start growing like 40 to 60%. So yeah, just to go back. So the interesting example reason I'm mentioning that is because, when they were in program.
George: it was my 1st program. So I was new. But I was also frustrated, because, like they were missing
George: half of these workshops.
George: but rightfully so. Yeah, because they were experiencing hyper growth.
George: So what was going on is, they were so busy packing these little like Ziploc bags with their continuous glucose monitors and their little kids. It looked horrible. They were charging like 200 250 a month back. Then they were making like, 1520 KA month.
George: Yeah, like that. Yeah, but like, just so, you know, like they were like, we don't have enough. They were stealing my associates and having them bag their products to sell like they were so busy
George: because they were making so much money and getting so much demand. And they didn't understand why.
George: So they skip the jobs to be done.
George: But then they ended up hiring Bob Mesta later, and Ryan Singer to do projects with them to help them understand? You know how much it costs to hire Bob. Mesta. Yeah.
George: So just so, you know. But they had the money. Yeah. So you know, it's just funny, like. But that's if you're in that situation. Go ahead.
George: But I don't think anybody in that situation right now. That's it. So like, yeah, this is like the kind of opt out condition. And by the way, you would talk to Dan. And like these guys, all have great relationship like Bob loves nutrisense. Nutrisense loves. Bob. Dan stayed in my house last weekend. Dan stayed in his house last weekend, but it is objectively nuts. They sold 6% of his company just to spend 6 figures on a contract to learn the exact same thing.
George: It's it's like that that's crazy. And again, it's a function of time. So
George: I would look at that and say, that's probably actually a waste of capital to to gain insights over time because of what the resources are that he had available to him when he was in this room. One more example that you share with me recently was the whole notion of like the viral post social post. So when it comes to predictable. So like you get like like he, his his Cmo, his co-founder, Graham, is like incredible
George: marketer social media poster. Graham has a lot of as again, you guys are like, you'll know about your team. I work with extremely special individuals. Graham has several super superhero level talents. One of them is that he doesn't. If you watch him on the screen with him.
George: And so it's just like, I don't know if you guys have been on camera before he makes fun of me. He'll randomly fill me in my whole bit. Is that like I forget, like how to pick up like a pad of paper or something like that. He's like this guy doesn't know what anything is when he's on camera, but like RAM is really really good at attracting large numbers of people to engage with how he communicates. It's not just his face. He can write something down, and people engage with it like authentically.
George: these are like, you know, we, we get dms about the like. People share our ads at a ridiculous rate. They share our ads. It's weird, like, just like things like that. They share your ads in the sense that it's like funny or entertaining. That's right. Yeah, exactly right? So. But but what I'm saying, though, is he's fundraising.
George: and he has these blips of 60,000 views, or like, however many likes and all that, and
George: so.
George: But did that mean anything with respect to predictability
George: as your fundraising or communicating? Because those blips are less meaningful
George: than the actual conversions in the actual engagement.
George: Ye? Yeah. Yeah. So you actually need to drive those conversions now, like.
George: what I will say is, you go viral several times. It's not helpful at all
George: you consistently month over month. Go viral over the course of 18 months. And you say, Hey, this is our playbook for going viral. We give it to somebody else. They also go viral, that's predictable.
George: And so all of a sudden, you kind of like
George: can turn the corner around it. We were talking with regards to experimenting on product. Which again, yeah, but but also like in A, b 2 b standpoint. Just so, you know, because I know most of y'all are b 2 b, just to provide the comparison. It's also like
George: you, you know, you know, a guy.
George: you know, you gotta you gotta connect or you got a resource. You gotta plug like you have someone to get you in somewhere.
George: Not predictable.
George: not repeatable. Right? That gets you going. That gets you started. But have you demonstrated that you have a model that allows you to continue to replicate that at scale over time?
George: That's the point.
George: This is the real end goal for all of you. So like, we're going to move on from this slide. But the question like, What is value? What are you trying to get to. We've talked about this in pre-program all the way back. If you remember, this is what we're trying to get each of you to. This is the win state of building a startup, and if you don't have this, don't fool yourself into thinking I'm going to fundraise, and then I'm going to get that. You're going to be the exact same person the next day.
George: And you want to fundraise earlier, you can go out of business sooner. So that's like, yeah, that's the trade off. You can feel guilty about taking a whole bunch of people's money and just lighting it on fire like, yeah, this is the this is the reality is like we talked yesterday. You are out of. This is just like you want to do the real talk talk. You guys are out of the playing startup phase. You're not going to go to a conference and talk to people. You're not out of the local versus tourist phase. There are like people in this room who in their head know that they're they only have a certain amount of time that they want to work on this point
George: like, that's the reality.
George: So it's like
George: you have to be able to clear that bar. The good news is, it's clearable, and we can qualify how to do it. The bad news is you have to do it so like, or you can call it the opportunity. Yeah, but yeah, we can break down value. So
George: the way that this program and that I have adopted talking about value is enabling progress through a struggling moment language you sound pretty familiar. You guys all talked about it yesterday. If you're able to do that again in a way that makes you money, and in a way that you can actually do to many people at at scale at mass. That's excellent.
George: If you can't again, it is not. It's just not useful. And and
George: people are going to look at you.
George: You're just not going to get like, maybe you will get lucky, but you're probably not. You're probably not going to get lucky. So the reality is like, what does it actually mean? Like, we're going to rapidly switch between different contexts, different language and different tasks here. So on one hand, you have that jobs. That job.
George: This is where it comes to comes to zest, which was a very difficult thing for us to articulate at 1st what it ultimately ended up being was number 2 for us. But your company is going to do one of 4 things. It's going to save people money. It's going to make them more money. It's a lot going to allow them to move faster, or it's going to reduce risk within their business. You need to be able to articulate extremely clearly exactly what you do for people as it relates to this scale.
George: the more clearly you're able to do it the better.
George: you are not owed anything by the people that are sitting across the table from you. It's going to be very easy to externalize playing. Oh, they weren't listening. Oh, they just didn't get it! Sure fine! Who gives a shit like the reality is that you have
George: every split second where you have to earn somebody's attention, and also they're cutting you a 6 to 7. Figure check not until I give you money, but to invest in a capital venture, scalable, venture size, return in your business.
George: You have to prove you have to prove it again
George: in very, very succinct order.
George: I don't know if it's like becoming clear. I don't know if I'm being clear enough. But you can't bullshit that because you basically, someone's gonna ask you a question. You're basically gonna have to give a 1 sentence or less than one sentence answer and then expand on that. And you can't do it by saying.
George: Yeah, I mean, we can go. I I looked at like a lot of what people are going through right now. I had, I pull up the website. I have like some
George: things I can run through for different people in the cohort. But like the reality is like.
George: I don't even know what some of you do based on your website.
George: let alone the progress that you're helping people make, let alone where the business is at. It's like
George: there, there are levels to this thing, and now is the time to batten the hatches and tighten the shit
George: about those 4 2 like should we articulate what we do in just with a single like
George: same of all of them, because, like in my head.
George: it's they are actually so connected in the b 2 b space. If you reduce this. You can help them move fast, and you can help them save more money, which makes them more money. So it's
George: like in my head it's all connected. But what's the maximum? And also what I would say is,
George: If the idea is confused in your head, it will not be clear for the person who you're asking money for. That sounds like someone who's only been able to do 2 or 3 jobs to be done. That's all right, because, like, you're theorizing in your head what it is rather than like going. Here's what we've heard from the people that we're serving. Then. Yeah, that's also fundamentally correct. What progress are people trying to make? What anxieties do you need to do risk in order to help them make progress? And what are they currently using.
George: It's like the I can say it in a million different ways, but it's like it just comes down to
George: you. Make me money. You help me save money, you reduce risk within the business, or like, where? How much faster are we gonna do like the 3 people that we talked mentioned, all of those.
George: I'm sure they didn't mention all of them. That doesn't mean all of them are true or equally important. It's also like, what are yeah, what are people. What people mention doesn't matter, which is what we're trying to like. Get to with this job stuff. It is. What is the underlying?
George: You're not talking to them like the way that you talk to your mother like catch up on on your day. You're you're like, it is
George: pure play.
George: This is how I take notes in the job zone.
George: Right? If
George: we use a whiteboard. Yeah.
George: it looks like this. Unlike transfers.
George: This is it. This is, I go in. And I have this written on the page, and all this time.
George: and you map the timeline and you create little notes, and you draw curiosity over here, and then you create little notes, and then you regroup afterwards. And you're like what the fuck just happened with. Whoever you did the job tonight.
George: I'm not smart enough to do it by myself. I need a partner.
George: It's like when we phrase that same question like, so you have like evidence that all 4
George: still say that phoning in on one value prop would be the way to go? Or do we frame the narrative that all your thought, but just to restate what I was saying.
George: They're not all equally true. What's the Federal? They're not all equally true. So understand what the heat map looks like for the person you're talking to. Yeah,
George: let let's put it. Okay. So yeah, I would say, I would use the phrase local maximum.
George: sure. Make sure they understand what that means. Yeah, it's just like some one is to, you know, to then restate it. One is going to be more true than the others. Now, like we help people save money.
George: It's fine. I can say it that way. But again, like, I think that I am
George: I'm demanding as much attention as someone can possibly demand. Right?
George: If I start to talk to you about the way we help people make more money because they live unfulfilled lives, and when they go to work they sometimes experience a situation where they are feeling unfulfilled, and when they come home at night they need to cook more, and when they eat worse, then they feel less healthy, and then they wake up the next day, and they're going to work, and they're not achieving that next promotion, and also groceries are
George: less healthy, like. The 1st thing was encoding, you know, like the the idea that I could go through all 4 of them. Number one is, I will stutter through all 4 of them like if it seems like it's disorganized. Trust your instinct.
George: It's like not gonna be
George: it. It won't be coherent if you're not able to articulate it yourself in a room that's going to be like the safest possible place to articulate
George: the global back. So we'll set up for that
George: local maximum would be that one is going to emerge as more important than the others.
George: But so there are going to be 4 things, all 4. 4 of these things are important. I will be able to. If I save more money, then I can deploy that money in hiring more people to make more money. But like the reality is, what's the function that I'm accomplishing? I'm saving money. It's not like I'm not. Gonna I don't want to connect the dot A to B to C to D for what I'm doing for you. Just get to do the thing. Do the 1st thing that we're doing for you. That's where we're driving the most value. But you don't decide and assign this.
George: You discover this. You learn this from your interactions and your process of selling and interacting and delivering value. You don't just look at it and go. Okay, we're this and not that. Or we're more of this, or we're all of these like, you don't just get to decide. Yeah, I also like wanna we, this is where it's like.
George: we're talking about discovery. Discovery like here's what I would say is like, you gotta line up calls. You got to validate that. There is a struggling moment that you understand how to sell into that is your 1st set of jobs interviews, and then you have to close sales.
George: Like immediately you have to start making money. I think that what we talk about with discovery is that it can become very distracting.
George: It's the wrong word. I use the wrong word then, because when I meant discovery. I meant through sales. I mean, you're learning through trying to sell what that matters right?
George: Cause that's super
George: like, I think that, like the the goal here is always reducing the 1st principles, understanding of what it is we help people make more money. Yeah. So Fabio asked, how do you signal value.
George: You try to sell, and you realize what they're saying? No to and what they would say. Yes, to reflect that fact. It's not just you looking good. So what? You reflect back what they're telling you essentially. No, no, you you get kicked in the face, and the door is slammed in front of you because they're like, No, thanks.
George: I don't choose you. I'm saying no. And then eventually someone says, yes, because you're iterating and figuring out how to actually deliver value. What if the customer is wrong like
George: they're not wrong. You have 2 choices.
George: the customer. The customer can be wrong, but then, like move to Montana, live in a cabin with no Internet connectivity like the market will will behave the way that the market's going to behave right? This is like, where? Like, yeah, like that. That's a that's a flag. Just so, you know, like, even that question in and of itself, it's like,
George: right? Like you think the customer is wrong like, oh, you're wrong. You won't pay me. No, I'm not gonna pay you. Sorry. Goodbye. I think that this is the underlying thing where like this is, gonna be true and venture as well. Nobody owes you any. Exactly.
George: It's
George: guess through, you know lots of conversations.
George: How
George: how long is too long to basically spread the net and like, try different things, and then just keep on. Keep going, keep going, keep learning, keep building. It's a way of being I I operate with like, Yeah, it's like you.
George: You're. I think, that too often
George: the there is a fallacy that you're everybody is dealing with that there are multiple potential futures and that
George: you are. There is a right choice.
George: There is no right choice. There's the choice that you will make.
George: and then you are going to make it with the best information presently available.
George: Now, that doesn't mean that you can't bring yourself in a situation
George: that like to you. You can't.
George: You could put yourself in a position to make a better choice. But that also. This is where, like I'm talking about at the beginning. There's a way. There's the moment in the meeting where you make the decision. That's the what the work that you're doing. And then there's the way that you do the work that you're doing, and these 2 things are distinctly separate and need to be iterated on success in in a sorry in parallel.
George: If that makes sense. So like, you guys are not only gonna make the only guarantee that I can make you is not all you're gonna make the wrong choice. And also you're gonna make the wrong choice in the wrong way. If you want to look at it that way or like you're gonna learn. And then you're also gonna learn how you work. I prefer to work that way, just trying to do less wrong by constantly iterating, constantly
George: experiment. I'd say, that's the goal.
George: I don't know if this is helpful or not.
George: and see on the other side of things as well. I remember when I was working at like it. Often each year we have like new products and new agencies that would present to us. And actually, this one time where I was infuriated to have this like internal voting system. And there's 1 team that really smashed it like the product was way better than everyone else's. Everyone in house is like, yes, yes, but it was just one
George: political person that whatever reason like said, no, but it didn't mean that agency or product. So it's just
George: yeah right
George: particular guy that I ever like. But I'm just trying to say if that's it's interesting. Now, being on the other side, and like not forget that
George: when you say I don't know if this is helpful. But this yeah, it's not
George: fucking ego tied up in this thing. It's not a reflection on you and like doesn't like. It's not like an indictment. It's like you to the degree that you can separate yourself or not like when you're that doesn't. That's not an excuse not to
George: turn the wheel in terms of how you're approaching work, and how you're selling and doing all of this. But if you don't close a deal like you might not be closing a deal, because the person's partner is very sick, and they just like they don't have the bandwidth to be signing a new contract right now. You also might not be closing a deal because you're not selling something that people care about because you're selling something that you care about like these are. These are all viable things now don't like blow with the wind. It's like there's touch to be applied to all of this, but it's like.
George: don't
George: you're not the sandwich. You're the mustard on the sandwich
George: like. Don't delude yourself into thinking that you're
George: the be all end all in this person's life. You are a 30 min slot on their calendar.
George: That's like
George: the whole bit. Now, like, I, yeah.
George: it's an important point to note. No starts ever gone out of business because they're delivering too much value because they're in too good of shape. This is this. This is
George: Relatively true. I I think, like
George: you are now a member of techstars. There's an apparatus in existence such that if you do ultimately end up creating too much value. There is an army of associates that can get work done for you while you close the round that is so obviously gonna come together
George: now, like, if
George: that's not the case there used to be like, you'll hear like Mark Cuban talk about failing by success. It's just much harder to do now, particularly when sharing this like program that accepts 0 point 5% of applicants like you just have a system around you such that you will not go out of business by delivering too much value. So it's a pretty good North started track. But creating value, of course, is enough.
George: It all comes down to being able to charge people enough for it.
George: being able to do it in a way that you're able to actually system.
George: Don't do
George: thinking that it's valuable is not the same as actually, it being valuable.
George: So you can't just go in your head and go. Oh, I know this is good. I know that they would want this, if only if only like. That's that means nothing.
George: just like my mom loves me. But I know I don't look like Liam Henson. It's there's signaling. The good news is that there's like real signal. You know.
George: One woman in the entire world thinks this way. Does mine also think that's right. But I'm not trying to marry my model. And so it's like you have to like, be able to go like there's only one way to go about doing this. But fundamentally, I mean, listen.
George: I'm a consumer. So I have a choice. I could charge right away. Right? You got 3 people on my platform.
George: I the choice you have 3 people on my platform is based on usage.
George: And so the signal would be significantly harder than are you willing to pay me this month? Were you willing to pay me last month? Are you willing to pay me the next month? Also I would need a hundred to 200 times more people on my platform to be able to sell good news for you guys that your b 2 b, so it literally doesn't matter. The free pilot dude. Sorry Neil kept me up late last night.
George: If you have, if you have 20
George: free pilots.
George: Yeah, we doing some mental math. Here, you ready? Where? Where are you at? In terms of arr? What? 23 pilots? Yeah. Where are you at? Arr? Yeah. Here we go near, it's got it.
George: And again, like, if we're able to do that math in this room, the other guy can also do that. But I've got all these yellow eyes. That's yeah. That's like I do like
George: it is
George: but fundamentally important to understand. I think, like Dominic to your point like this comes down to in my mind empathy and respect it's like, and this isn't like respect like kiss the ring like the dom like it's respect like.
George: Why, look, why should I walk in thinking that I'm gonna commit? Convince you to
George: invest in something that I know I'm bullshitting.
George: Now this is again where the learning mindset is going to be critically important because this is not an excuse to go.
George: We're all insecure about the things that need to be improved. But there are opportunities for improvement and areas to learn. So this is not to be confused with if you are creating value that like oh, the business isn't perfect yet. It's gonna you can fall into the same fundamental trap.
George: But
George: where we are, where we are right now is.
George: I spoke yesterday. I said briefly, that I tried to create a frame of mind that that I'm less that I'm less likely to fall into naturally over index on that. And ideally, I'll come out to neutral assuming you guys are significantly more likely to assume you have more than you have.
George: That's just that's the reality of the situation.
George: Can we talk about the dark side for a quick second? Yeah, so dark. Side. So there's 1 cautionary note about this, and I'm not. Tell me if this fits into the to the pace. But
George: There's 1 exception of what we've talked about so far.
George: and it's particularly present in this market in this look like in this geography in the bay.
George: And that's if you have a certain degree of charm, charisma and and presentation skills.
George: you can raise capital that goes against everything that we're talking about here.
George: Yeah, I've seen it happen. Sorry what Elizabeth hold. That's that's the one that you know about. But there's like
George: thousands other examples that you don't know about, because those companies didn't get nearly as close because they waste. They raised one round
George: and they burnt all that money, and then they like
George: dip off.
George: and you don't ever hear from them again.
George: So I've seen this happen, and it's super awkward, because, like you. We like
George: on my end as an investor. I can see it coming
George: right. So I see someone who's got the charm, who says the right things. But I know what's under the hood, and there's nothing
George: but they're so good at putting together a deck, telling the story, making things seem like there's something that they're not. And they craft all these, and they use all the dark patterns and tactics that you can to like raise. Venture capital. Yeah. And they've raised 3 million dollars.
George: Now, all of a sudden that money's gone, and you never hear from them again, you're gonna do all the same dark shit. That's also. This is also true. You call me about it. Yeah, this is where
George: what's the I mean? It could be avatar like like the bad like again. It can be just bending. But there are only 2 2 elements there like you have air, and you have fire where it's like
George: I. There I also reach a point where it's like, Oh, shit like we. I feel like we are driving consistent value. But I refuse to walk into these meetings and do some of the things that a lot of these people end up doing. But the reality is, if everybody, if there's a pattern recognition and everybody's views.
George: you'll get advice from really smart people, and they'll go. We'll say it like this, yeah, they'll give you really clever ways to frame things and to not say certain things so that you know you're positioning yourself to communicate.
George: I guess, like this is where this is. What I would say. Here is
George: I mentioned that we raised money. And you guys clapped yesterday 1.6 million that that's
George: It can't be the milestone, but it is for these people. So it is the raise. That's what matters. And the reality is.
George: I need to build a successful. I need to build a sustainable business. That's the milestone.
George: That's what I'm going for. I work with somebody in my office again like this is the guy like you have Yc. Founder. You raise a fuck ton of money they, and it is unbelievable. They do not have a product.
George: It's not like they don't have a company like it's it's crazy. It like he. All this guy does. Is he like, Come on travel? Now we're talking here and now we're doing this now, and it's like we're sitting around. My co-founder calls him a bad main character. It's like
George: there. These people will exist. They will do their thing, but they are indexing on like. What are you indexing on? Why are you in this? What are you doing this?
George: And if to build a successful company is, if it's for the love of your customer product, you're fucking, learning out about that. And you're setting up your people to thrive like you're in a really really good position. If it's for the raise
George: that's great. But number one, you're not gonna be able to pay yourself out as much as you're gonna you think you're gonna be able to. And number 2 is, it's gonna go.
George: It'll go the exact same way as everything else, because we're actually going to get into this. But we're going to get into it later. A dollar 80 from an investor is worth less than a dollar. Not all money is creating. You're selling your company to do that. A dollar in from a customer is actual signal. It's not just a dollar. It's signal, like there are going to be. There's money that you want, and then there's money that
George: is a necessary evil.
George: or like there are. There are kind of like layers, but it sets you up to make lots of mistakes, too, so we call it the money gun. So whenever you have a problem in your business, you're like, Oh, I just shoot it with the money gun.
George: Right? I have this problem. Let me spend money on. I have this need. I'm gonna hire someone to do it. Like all of a sudden, all the issues in your business, all money related, and as long as you have the money you'll solve it, sure.
George: right? Never happens.
George: So okay, we keep going. Yeah, there's a couple of questions. We're in the nearest.
George: If I'm understanding your school of talk correctly here.
George: What you're saying is, there's 2 ways of being able to raise money. Number one be charming, have the devil thing, and then, you know, charm your way into stuff, and then number 2 is, be profitable and predictable. Is that the case.
George: No, so sorry you say what you want to say. But investable is what I would say.
George: okay? And like, didn't we look at these things, as you know, as part of investability or like, is there more to come? Am I? I think that? There's 3 other layers. Yeah. Yeah. So we're just getting started. This is
George: the language that we use to describe these people is wrong. It carries with it too much positive charm sounds very nice. Yeah, that's too complimentary. It's not. This is not.
George: It's not like, oh, if only I had that!
George: Oh, those people are able to do this thing number one is, there's a significant amount of network typically associated with that which, like I, I was the 1st time, like, typically like you just have to assume that that isn't you. If your wife works in venture capital, you're going to be better off than if your wife is not a part of our desk like, it's like just kind of the way that it goes. But like, I do
George: think that
George: it's
George: important, also important to acknowledge again, like
George: what is the moment that you're that you're anchoring
George: the reason? It's always been a very strange one for me. It's made out of anxiety because you're running out of money, and you money is time, but you can create time by spending less money.
George: So it's there are. There are leverage at your disposal aside. It's like it feels free. And this is the same. It's the same bias that's gonna make you make poor decisions when you're closer to running out of money than when you are where you are right now.
George: Excuse me, is the exact same bias that's going to make it seem like the money in. Now, I will not regret, because it's more time. Now I'm buying more time. If only I had 2 million in right now then, all of a sudden, like these problems would go away. I can spend that money and we'll figure it out. You're the same person today that you're going to be. Then
George: it's gonna be the exact same shit.
George: It just doesn't change. The most frequent call I get are from founders.
George: I have 2 months runway, and I just need to close this round, and if I do, then I can do all these things. Sorry I didn't say that more clearly. Sorry 2 months runway.
George: And that's around around the time. Yeah.
George: it's like, if
George: this is something that happens that often like, why do we still invest in such founders? One question and the second, how do not really motivated about it? Great question. I missed a second. But there's a success. Bias.
George: A lot of the people, like
George: most of the people that get funding are like this and are not like that other group. You should hear about the other group because they make a really good TV show.
George: Yep.
George: And then on the other side of it, because I mean
George: fundamentally, believe all our ideas are not unique. There are, like other people out there doing something similar. How do you beat the fact that like how do you? How do you
George: fight? The fact that those people are managing to raise money? But you're not
George: like there's a there's a like, there's a there's a go to the gym, and you stare at other people
George: not fair, but like sometimes looking at them like, dang, man, you got it, and I don't got it. What do you do about that? You keep lifting, and you look at yourself in the mirror. Bro like, come on, what are we doing this for? If you're going to spend all your time looking at what somebody else is doing, you lost.
George: He's right. He's giving you cobra kai. This is the other thing again is, I find, that that line of thought generally will lead you down the amygdala path of
George: work harder being bought just if only you just start grinding, grinding, grinding. You need to control what's within your control.
George: Everything else is noise.
George: So there are. There are ways that you can leverage what your what your competitor is doing. But the reality is, how are you gonna spend that money. It's like
George: I started with that like, figure out, figure this stuff out, and you will not raise, and you will not perform.
George: We have, like our our number one competitor are 2 Phds. From Harvard, and one Stanford, Phd.
George: We fucking kick their ass. It's like ridiculous. This guy has been at it forever, and has
George: raise outraged us to shit. He can't, he can't do it. The reality is because he, he building.
George: no matter what they do. They're gonna build their thing. They're gonna post in their channel. They're gonna do their thing. We're we're out here just like fucking.
George: changing as as we go. We have no attachment. Well, let's be real for a second, though, Jake, that's also something you've struggled.
George: Yeah, he's probably because he reaches out to me because he's always watching and worrying over them. No, but that's but like the other example, that's really good, that I think, is basecamp.
George: You think they're looking at Asana and Clickup and monday.com. And they're like, Oh, what do they do? No, they're like, all right. The vast majority of our customers
George: are using excel
George: email
George: posted notes.
George: We're not even competing with these apps.
George: We're competing with people, the majority of people's normal behaviors for how they manage their work and get things done.
George: I have a point so indirect
George: and thinking deeply about where their customers are actually coming from and understanding.
George: Yeah, sorry I got excited.
George: That's good. What you're what you're saying is
George: I do. I like to be clear. I deal with this all the time.
George: It would be weird if I did it.
George: The key in the practice is around being aware that you are comparing yourself to the what is outside of your control.
George: gaining awareness over that and bringing yourself back to what you do.
George: and it will constantly, continuously happen. We are all driven people that want to be outperforming, outraising like, but like one, is that great signal in the market to have those competitors. But the other is like again.
George: to what end?
George: Like great you have that thought. It's true like, there's no debating whether or not that's true.
George: But so what
George: you mentioned madness, experience would you mention about Harper in the Park.
George: like? How many of you all in your mentor madness! I'm curious to see a show of hands. Heard from a mentor. Have you heard about this business? That's kind of like your business.
George: Anybody hear about that? What about? Okay? So that happened to you. There's another zest. There's another zest cooking.
George: And it came up already.
George: Yeah. And what did he say? What did he tell you to do? Change your name?
George: I told him. That sounds like a pretty weird idea. Given that we already have, Mark, and he said, it doesn't matter. You will not out leverage them. You will not even change your name.
George: He did not change. Well, we're just cooking available on both app stores.
George: yeah, that's that doesn't happen. I mean, I'm a point in this later to what you were just talking about with base Camp. Yep.
George: Chattanooga is a fairly well kept secret. So there's actually like a tremendous amount of nature there, and it's attracted somehow one of the people that works there is somebody that helped a lot of health brands get off the ground ground, including like if you do. If you know liquid death.
George: The yeah. So the guy who worked on the punk rock branding and all that stuff works down there. He has something that he calls a 40% rule. If less than 40% of all people out there know about what your name is, then you don't have awareness, and if nobody has more than 40%, then there is no awareness. And so you can just go in there and fuck shit up in your category.
George: What's his name, David.
George: Okay, I might be on a board together.
George: But anyway.
George: okay, send it back to it like
George: again. I'm I'm sort of reiterating the same thing, but no profitability, no fundability. Is that
George: is that
George: do I have to be profitable to get funding? Yes or no? Let's keep going. If if in 30 min you don't have an answer to that question, then we're gonna we can talk again. We also forgot to answer Morgan's question that you message on this morning. But we'll oh, I want to do that. It was a good question.
George: It, yeah, it definitely is separate. Yeah, this. This is fundability it this story to raise money. So what I'm talking about is, if you want to walk into a room and raise capital at
George: in in a way that will
George: where you feel
George: a position of strength where you wield leverage.
George: This is how you do it.
George: You don't need the money.
George: You are raising money. You are selling a portion of your business to accomplish a concrete goal
George: that you're excited about, that you're excited about.
George: so I can't wait to get your money, because I'm gonna have this really cool thing that I'm gonna do with it. So this is the abundance frame, basically. But it doesn't. Yeah, not just abundance. No, it's more like
George: it's slightly scientific.
George: like your data guy. Right? So all of a sudden, I have this data that shows that if I have a million dollars, and I do these things with it. This business gets way more exciting than before.
George: You're gonna reach a point where it no longer feels like you're asking people for money and giving them an opportunity. And you're giving them an opportunity.
George: You're going to lie to yourself before you get there. But you're gonna get there. You're going to know when you turn the corner. How do you trick yourself into believing this is true when you have like. I don't know. 6 months of revenue of a runway, and you're not profit, I guess, like there's not true. What can you do to extend your runway.
George: Yeah, get more customers, increase revenue expenses your value.
George: There you go. You're a genius. Best part is you can trick yourself into a great face.
George: Do you feel that way like you were presenting an opportunity to when you raise your 1st
George: money outside of techstars.
George: But you learn it through that process. Yeah, you were so worried. Yeah, I was so, because it seems like a crazy proposition, it does. The reality is you're not going to close money. If you don't feel that way.
George: You learn that extremely quickly. But it's
George: yeah.
George: I'm trying to save people time in my 2 days here. That's like what I my goal. Is that like I again, like you are, you have a shorter experience around this. Given that I've done this. But
George: do you feel that way?
George: I think empathy again just raging down on that is extremely important. Who's the person that you're sitting in front of these things occur in flow? They have investors. They're called lps limited partners. They owe their partners a return on their investing capital.
George: It's like, if I came to you and I was. I come to you. I'm like you invest 10% of your life savings in my asset class.
George: and I will deploy it in this person who doesn't even believe like what they're selling. It's like, that's a disservice to everyone. Not only is it a service, it's actually a client, so like it. It's against the wall. So like it's just there, is.
George: it?
George: It doesn't matter what we're talking. Oh, the fucking down run! Why does it matter if I'm raising? If I'm losing my investors money in a risk.
George: It's like.
George: yeah, it's like there's because they you owe them the return on invested capital. And there's some scary founders out there. There's some founders that have no emotion about that. Just so, you know, and they'll coach you to to do the same, meaning like they don't care
George: they take money they take money with. No, I like care whatsoever about whose money they're taking and how they're spending it. If the game is, take the money. It's less about like I don't want to deliver. I don't want us to succeed together, whatever I just. I'm I'm getting your money because this is a game I can play, and if I win I get the money doesn't matter what I do with right. But there's a behind the curtain version of it on the Vc. Side. For me, which is a very clear this is almost binary.
George: The binary piece is, it's so obvious the founders
George: that are insecure
George: meaning like they're pitching you.
George: But like they're trying really hard to convince themselves. And you that you should invest
George: versus these other founders that show up.
George: They know
George: that their business is worth something, and they're looking at you to go. Are you the right person to be on my cap table?
George: The energy of the founders that are like, are you the right person to be on my cap table
George: is
George: completely different than the founders that are like clearly trying to persuade you to pay attention and listen to them. You need to tell a story about math where Troy was like. We need to get in on this deal like everything. Those are my guys like I know them really? Well, the co-founder was a student in my 1st code Academy class, like, those are my guys, but so they've done very well.
George: I remember when I was working at my 1st Vc job in 2,007,
George: and it was like, 20 yeah, 2,008. Something like that. And the CEO of the Vc. Firm came in on the Monday morning meeting.
George: The deal that you want to be to these Vcs is the one where
George: a partner at the firm
George: starts to hear about you as a founder, or you as a business or both.
George: and they tell their associates. Hey, I need a meeting with Spot Hero next week
George: like I need to get in. It's like they're not even putting themselves out there to have the meeting. But now the Vcs. Are hearing about you as a founder, your business, and how it's going, and they want to have a conversation with you.
George: Those deals get done the fastest
George: with the best terms for the founders, and have had the best outcomes.
George: not even close.
George: I mean?
George: Yes, like I was the person who asked the question about the demo, and like this might be me being very ill informed. But I go out. I raise a i i raise a series a and like I have this amount of valuation.
George: and then I'm building up to something. But like I'm sort of short of, you know. Some amount of capital that I really need to raise quickly. So I'm losing leverage. Yes.
George: but isn't in the eyes of the Vc. The turning point. Like all of these, you know papers that hold in their hands about my company, how much of my company they own, and what sort of privileges they have like. Doesn't that only get realized at the point where the company goes to exit, or an Ipo right, it helps me to understand how the world works, because
George: in my head, if I am able to raise a big round and get a lot of capital, and then I have. I need a little bit more, but I have less leverage, because I haven't, you know, quote unquote, misused money. Here's what I'll say is just given that we're time constraint. There's an answer to your question. The answer is that it does. It hurts them
George: based on how they need to run their business it's like, but it's it also to Neil's point, like we're talking about that like, let's talk about. We'll get there. But just a quick response. The way the world works is that that is 99 times out of 100 a sunk cost.
George: That's the way the world works.
George: Yep, alright.
George: there's a lot there we could. But this is a rabbit hole that you can go down. But again, I just don't think it would add tactical value that will save your company.
George: Last thing I'm going to say on this point is, Neil, yeah, Neil, Neil is mentioning invest like investor money. This is not your mind all this stuff. It is not your money, but once it is invested in your company, is also not helpful to think about as your investors money anymore. The money belongs to your company, and you are a fiduciary of your company.
George: It is your job to deploy that capital as effectively as possible, because what's going to happen is you will have disparate personalities who are now have ownership in your business. Now there are 2 types of ownership. We can talk about all of that, but, like the reality, is at the very least, they will feel like they own part of your business, and as a result of that they may try to exert influence. But it is not your job to impress or be friends or be like work with your investors. It is your job to run an effective company
George: again. It's like, ask yourself, go back to 1st principles. It's like.
George: what is the desired outcome. It's a successful business. It's not to raise money.
George: Well, to be clear.
George: they could fire you.
George: and they can manipulate the direction of the business. So okay, just want to be clear about that. We're gonna we're gonna double click again, we're gonna yeah. So we're gonna double click. Then again. So there are 2 types of ownership in your company. When you're raising money, there's going to be economics, and there's going to be control right? Economics. They can't fire.
George: It's they are buying a portion of your company. They're giving you money in exchange. There's also going to be there. You can go even deeper there. But like then there's going to be control, which is to say, Yeah, they they can
George: have you met enough screwed over founders yet. What's up? Have you met enough screwed over founders? Yeah, I've heard some horror stories. But that's why you get really impartial board members. Okay, I know a lot of them. That's why you go in here sliding your term sheet across the table and asking, you agree to my terms. You don't want to be forced into these scenarios where you are controlled.
George: That's what we're trying to help you with.
George: So it's 1110. So
George: I think we're fine on time. Okay.
George: so yeah, this is what we were hitting where it's like you. This means that you can aggressively spend money to make more money, or your company is money like your company is money. So we we kind of qualified that but the reality is, your customers are your best investors. So we're talking about a dollar and being worth more in terms of what it signals to you the way that the rate that it lets you iterate the rate that it lets you learn
George: optionality being critical, what do you mean by optionality negotiate from a point of strength. If you want one of the most impressive people in the world at finding your point of strength, he happens to be in this room and directly in my life. It's like
George: it is a we're talking about outlook. This does not mean that you're lying to yourself to convince yourself you have the wrong way, like it's you can't do it like the numbers will be the numbers. But to be in a position of strength is critical. So now.
George: ideally, okay, so we already kind of hit on this, we're yeah. We're gonna talk.
George: sorry, we're we're going to talk in particular about what it means to create optionality in your business. The last point you mean delusions with an E right? Oh, yeah, I can't spell. So it was only a matter of time. But this is these. These are 2 delusions within the company. One is I. If I lose more of your money, I'll be able to break even the other is, I can spend a fuck ton of money to scale. And we're even okay with Number one, if you have a plan, and it's convincing.
George: Yeah, well, yes, like, there's a case where, if you have a path to break even with your capital. But it's an exciting hyper growth business where at scale it makes sense like there's a mathematical argument for Number One, right? Assume that you don't have a mathematical argument for number one.
George: So this again, we've already talked about. These people see a ton of deal flow. They're like, you're going to come. And you're going to think that you're presenting something new, exciting, and different. The reality is, they pitch your business last Tuesday like it doesn't. You're not going to be able to convince them otherwise. And so the question then becomes, and or if we don't end up getting here, then we'll talk about it. How do you actually reach this thing. Let's drill down into what it means by building a tower around it.
George: Okay, this is, gonna be the frame of mind. This is gonna be the frame of reference that we use. This is where it gets mine
George: to build this tower. We can do it empirically by setting up some scaffolding. It's going to be a 4 story building
George: that's gonna be the support that's gonna be these things like you need scaffolding to actually lay the foundation to lay the brick for the building. But it's not gonna you're not gonna be able to move in there yet.
George: You don't know what scaffolding is. Okay? Who doesn't. Well, I understand, because then what I'm going to do is at each level of the tower we're going to then lay down concrete the things that are going to be irrefutable that will make this tower so sturdy and secure that you're going to be able to move when he says Tower, he's talking about a literal building like the building we're in right now has 6 floors. We're going to build a 4 floor building
George: based on your business right now to talk about what a complete building would be
George: literally okay, there we go. Okay. Cute. That was that was great.
George: I can't smell.
George: This is gonna be okay. So
George: all right. Good, yeah, this is how this is how this actually plays out in principle, scaffolding is going to be anecdotal evidence to support the level that you are currently on and concrete is going to be the statistical evidence that people will be able to reinforce. To say, this person has definitively reached this point.
George: you can make it on scaffolding. So what I'm talking about is not that you need a completely profitable and a completely
George: a completely predictable business. What I'm talking about is de-risking elements of your business through being able to communicate your value proposition through
George: clear and concise methods, and then also through achieving levels of this tower, to put yourself in the best possible situation, to negotiate from a point of strength.
George: Okay? And what I would say, is to preoccupy yourself with raising money right now, I mean, just try to bet like, keep that as a mental bench does. My is my time better spent working on the scaffolding here, working on concrete here, or fundraising money.
George: And so
George: here's what we'll do.
George: You need. You need concrete on all levels to find this point. But for the time being, let's figure out where we're at. Right?
George: we'll build upon it. Okay.
George: So
George: this is, we explain the levels at some point, right? It's coming up. We're gonna get into it deeply. I think that the the last piece I would say, just because it's easiest when it's esoteric, for the I think, for the time is that my business provides value to customers in way number 3. We currently have achieved level 2, and we're raising money to get to level 3 bang! You'll raise money.
George: That's that's right. That's exactly. This is where we're getting for the ground floor of this all comes down to the vision for your company. There's going to be the scaffolding, the scaffolding version of the vision. But really, what you're trying to communicate is this is a business that will work. This is something that can work with a real shop on goal. By doing this thing. The scaffolding version is like
George: teams, high energy, motivated experience. I think that will like distribute all this stuff here. Yeah. But there are here. If you benchmark against the industry, there are other examples where this is. This is the potential to be a massive, addressable market, or very logically, we can start moving towards a massive market.
George: And here's a list, a compelling list of customers who may feel this. Okay, you may be thinking of an example, because I know there's a word about competitors. You and I had a great conversation about this in preparation for Demo Day, this right here
George: there are examples of similar products from parallel markets. So you're gonna watch Jake Jake's Demo day video at some point, and you'll see something that he and I worked on together. But
George: What's really impressive on the fundraising front and best ability front
George: is when you know
George: what examples and you can demonstrate your excitement to follow to stand on the shoulders of giants.
George: So there are companies in parallel markets that you study closely that you understand how they got to market product market fit.
George: and you've extracted some meaningful elements from their playbook that you're incorporating into your business model that you can then demonstrate to an investor like I know the game and how to get to the 1 billion.
George: Here's how right. So what was the quick line from you? Because
George: there were like 3 apps.
George: There were 3 companies that you referenced.
George: You're talking about the Demo image parallel apps. Yes.
George: brilliant and headspace, headspace, headspace brilliant and duolingo. He didn't just name drop.
George: He studied these companies and their models, and understood their path to success, and had thought through zest model, and how they would
George: incorporate those elements into his business, and how how he would scale Andy. Just curious! What was your the total addressable market that when you were raising at this level, what was what was the number for the total addressable market that you had
George: cause? I I guess I've got different feedback on what's the right size for mathematically
George: I can share with you. We size the market. The reality is that it doesn't matter. It on its own won't matter. You need a compelling answer upfront that you can then drill into in depth. I mean right now, is there an opportunity here? Well, Duolingo is a 10 billion dollar company, and the next next consumer apps is going to be built.
George: You hear that? You hear? That's a Vc meeting right there.
George: It's real good.
George: Yeah, it's this is where like
George: to build scaffolding that you let's go to. This is what concrete looks like.
George: Right? We've exited multiple companies. We've started multiple companies. This is the person that had the meeting right before you. That's trying to convince the person that it's gonna work. There is. There's a workable prototype you might have like certain levels of this, too, we were able to get again like I could isolate where like this is where we had concrete. This is where we had staff.
George: But there's a workable prototype that's in a handful of several customers. There's an existing multi 1 billion dollar annual spend in this category. Our team has direct access to a wait list of customers who have paid for this product. We just need to branch market like people who already paid. You're gonna is like
George: is anecdotal. It is weaker than confidence. Sorry. I just want to make sure I understand the question. I'm sorry to cut you off.
George: Okay, so this this is far more compelling than this.
George: I'm sorry if that wasn't
George: yeah. Like, if you, if you just just do a direct line from each one like like both. Both aren't always true. Okay?
George: Right? I mean, look at the the 1st one should highlight this right? Like, you're a 1st time founder versus
George: we just sold our 3rd business, and we're going out to raise again. And are you making the argument that you need to do scaffolding 1st and then follow up with, yeah. So that's what I wanted to add. So when we do this workshop, everybody on this slide always says, Well, I can't get to concrete on teeth because I haven't.
George: This is just reality, like, Yeah, that's true. So you are going to be on scaffolding 14 for level one. If you haven't started and exited another company. There are things you can do. You can add another co-founder who has exactly. That's what I was going to say.
George: like, there are things you can do. But I also want you to realize, like, just like yesterday, where we were asking about the data on or was asking about the data on
George: Jake's spreadsheet. And it's like you don't have the data. That just is the reality right now. So we can wonder like, Oh, what am I supposed to do? But this is just the reality, I was saying. It's like how they're. They don't have the data. So they have to start with the spreadsheet. That doesn't have it. That's just reality. But the side note that Jake and I, just like briefly mentioned, is like there's ways to counterweight creatively
George: any deficiencies that you might have to get to concrete. So yeah, sure you don't have a co-founder who's experienced. But you have a board. Member. You have an advisor. You have one of your early hires. Yeah, exactly. It's like you need kind of to have.
George: We have a hulk.
George: you know, like there's like a there's a way to do it, you know.
George: and also scaffolding sort of acts like. You know, if you look at a real building with scaffolding on it, and some level of concrete. It basically shows you how tall that building is going to be in the end. Yes, yes, that's a great point, yeah.
George: cool. So level, one's good.
George: So yeah, we talked about this. This is this is what we just hit on. But there is a difference between the 2 of these.
George: taking a break time. Right? Yes, you'll find out more about this one later. Remember, that's necessary. Their job is to say no which is extremely hard to relate to, because your job is to get to. Yes, the entire point of this is de-risking
George: their commitment to
George: whenever anybody is helping out. And the reality is like, the reason that this program is differentiated is that the investors are operators
George: by trade. And so once you're in, it's highly optimistic. It's highly hands on a lot of the people that are going to be on the other side of the table are not operators again. They're experts in what they do just because they're not an expert in what you do doesn't make them idiots, doesn't make them like silly, stupid, uninformed. What it does is make them good at their job. So it's like, it is actually a function. It is not the bug. We couldn't raise our business. We're
George: you tried.
George: We tried.
George: That was fun. Yeah, this is yeah, again, like, and and this is where it like hits on.
George: Let me fall. He's been in your shoes. The reality is like, I can go back and try to stop find like various patchworks. But yeah, we can't. We could not raise on vision. It's not compelling. And, like again, these people, similar to your customers in market do not owe you any. You need the mark like you need to bring something that is compelling and worth worth. The only person that he sold on vision was us.
George: We took you on vision, because that's my game. Yeah, but that's it. You're done with the vision, you know, actually, actually, that you had your chance. Yo, it sounds it sounds funny, but that actually is a
George: it's a huge differentiator for Neil and for this program is like now, having seen again, like gained exposure to deal flow, that different people take on what they take seriously, it is
George: ridiculous like he is like playing 3D chess with this, and it's like ex extremely important to see. Like to get these bodies in. But you're you are done
George: like that. That's that's it. And it's certainly not a guarantee. Yes.
George: get that. You get that move once. Yeah, super move
George: that. That's it. You didn't even know you were using it. Then you could have saved it for right now. But the second floor that we're gonna talk about is product. That's where you reach a moment where you're like. Not only do people want it, or sorry that drive an idea, but this is something that actually works. And if you have a scaffolded version of product, the product works in a limited capacity, it can deliver like you're able to ship something. It delivers what you say that it's gonna ship
George: you are supplementing it. So I forget who was saying, you guys, yeah, like Wizard of Oz, yeah, you're scaffolded. But like, that's what that means from my workshop. Really, I have a new workshop that I do.
George: I? Yeah, which is like again, this is an important part of the process, and you can signal because you can gain signal from the market. What are you trying to do? You're trying to close deals and gain distribution.
George: That's like the whole entire thing. Make money, gain signal, get better like it's just like the entire cycle over and over and over again. But the reality is that you need maintenance work to keep on going. Not necessarily a bad thing. Again, it's just a certain that bugs it breaks. It doesn't always make everybody happy. There's things going on. But it's actually happening.
George: Yeah. The concrete version of this is that bad cases are sealed up. It's reliable. You're optimized for cost and speed as a real product. It's just happening on its own. And it works. You know, you're gonna get when you ship new things you might. Things might break down, but you're in a much more consistent flow with how the product is coming tomorrow. What you're seeing here by contrast, is sophisticated institutional investors. Due diligence process.
George: This is what we're assessing you.
George: Yeah, Andy, we should probably like Rip through. By the way, again, it's not everybody but like this. Oh, we'll do that right. Jake has feedback for all of you, because y'all got broken links. Some of you guys aren't showing up properly online. Yeah.
George: And it's bad hygiene, and it immediately kills you. So like, for example, I've been 1st line of defense analysts and multiple Vcs, and my job is to look at companies to see like, are they like, do they have the basics? And some of you don't have the basics? Yeah. So and again, he doesn't think this way we were talking about this this morning.
George: Assume that 80% of people out there think in terms of I'm a 1st line analyst at this Vc. And my job is not to lose my job.
George: I want to float shit. That doesn't make me look like shit. Yeah. And I can't waste anyone's time, and I'm going to look really really terrible if I bring a company that didn't show up for prime time. Oh, oh, but they're cool because I like them. Yeah, no, that won't work like is scaffolding sort of like would be. You need a team before you can build a product. So there is causal elements. What we're talking about.
George: one will come before the other. Yeah, there's there's weight to the stats. But it doesn't align with rocks. Okay, okay, it actually, actually, it slightly does. It actually, slightly does. Just to be clear. And this is my opinion. But but yes. So so to be clear. Precede like you can sell a vision.
George: See? You gotta have a combination of product and vision and some traction
George: series a it. We're getting into the to the deep end. Okay? Right? But but at the scene you're signaling, L, 3 is like game on, like I have indicators that I'm gonna get there, and then you gotta go all the way. Now
George: to Liliana's Point.
George: We'll talk about Level 4.
George: I'm teaching you all to have a plan for Level 4 from the jump. Yes, I know that's what you're thinking. But to be clear nutrisense, there's a lot of examples of companies that don't figure out level 4 until later and still succeed. So we'll get there. But that's but that's the other thing now, like.
George: because again, like I feel like you is. I'm gonna look at this because we're fucked up in the head. And I'm gonna be like.
George: it's a hard thing to explain. But you're gonna look at this and be like I'm there because I'm 3 steps away from it. You're not there like it's it's a really hard thing to like where it's like. Oh, I see what that looks like, and because I can visualize it, I'm already I've already accomplished it, but the other person doesn't think that way. It is your job to think that way like that is the eternal flame of optimism that we need to build this presently. Unimaginable solution. Only you see the ideal version of yourself? Right?
George: So that's yeah, that that's something. It's an undeniable like kind of piece of this whole thing. But again.
George: yeah, you're gonna see this.
George: I would also say, one piece of product that we we look at is.
George: is it outsourced? That's not like on here. But that's a big part of diligence.
George: This is where, like we're gonna start to like.
George: Why, we ordered this stuff the way that we ordered this stuff is like you will not move from scaffolding to concrete without having ways that you do work. It's just not going to happen because there's too much ship.
George: It's gonna you're gonna feel busy. You're gonna feel overwhelmed, and then you just will drown. Well, this didn't just come. This is a quick side note story time.
George: This. This framework did not come out of nowhere. So merit to some of you know some of you don't. He crafted this with us.
George: but
George: he was an operator. He sold his company. He's built other companies.
George: but he and I worked at math
George: venture partners. Troy's venture firm together.
George: Mert and I were together. We were both on the team. We were venture partners, or I forgot my title, whatever it was right. So he and I were like in the field.
George: doing investment with Troy for math, and as we were doing it, we learned this from that side of things in the modern era, because we were operators before.
George: So, as I work with Merch on this.
George: it was very clear to us
George: what was happening
George: for which deals we invested in and among those investments which deals succeeded and produced a return.
George: And what we're giving you is that framework and formula.
George: come on.
George: there we go. So now let's talk about customer success. We're gonna break this down. We already, like again, had a bit of a head start yesterday, but like
George: it works well. People really enjoy using what we're what we're putting out there.
George: You gotta get to here. This is like you're gonna talk about like, but you gotta get to here like this is the. This is the bare minimum to overcome. And you're talking about like from scaffolding like
George: people might be signaling price sensitivity. They're happy, Ish.
George: You're you're seeing churn, but like
George: people are coming back, people will tell you nice things about your product. At this point will be signaling. They don't care as much of the products taken away from them.
George: You're like, okay, we're out here. We're closing sales. There's something, but it doesn't. It works well. It doesn't work well enough.
George: is is kind of where we're at. Sounds like a vitamin problem over there like, it's a nice to have for your segment.
George: Yeah, I think I think, yeah, I've always like taken the issue a bit with the like. I think this is a good reason. It's like you haven't unlocked. It's someone like people who have been down the road will tell you that like it's an insult. You are building a vitamin. You're not building a vitamin. You just haven't iterated to the point where you've turned like, I'm not necessarily into the you haven't found value yet.
George: So you have to be untethered to similar to you and your jobs presentation yesterday, like, I'm coming to market. I'm building this thing and like it's like, Oh, shoot! There isn't like I cannot figure out what the late demand in the market is. And so then you're starting to talk. Now you're over here, and it's like, Okay, maybe this won't be exactly it, either, but like you're very much going down the rabbit hole, I'll tell you like the hardest thing is going to be to untether yourself from the 1st thing that you
George: it's gonna be like. And then all of a sudden, you're gonna gain this weird level of flexibility and ability. I can help you with the vitamin thing and help you get over that. It's Bell Curve.
George: It's market size. So you're dealing to the like the later adopters. That's where the vitamin comes into play. It's the people later on at scale that benefit from it, but aren't like desperate for it. But
George: there's a way to figure that out and incorporate that into your market size.
George: Oh, but I'll explain it later.
George: Yeah, this is like, this is aspirational, right? Like your people are unbelievably and stupidly happy with what you're what you're shipping. You can literally double your price. You can 5 x your price. This is my natural. Yeah, they're like, Wow, they didn't. No one left.
George: Yeah. So
George: let's see, let's see one
George: of these.
George: He's worth a hundred of these. Yeah.
George: I don't like. Like, like people always try to focus on numbers and growth and the kpis, and how good it looks on paper and views, and all these like vanity metrics.
George: But you have one deliriously happy customer, and you can prove that there are many more of them. You just need to do a lot of work to get them. That's way more meaningful than 100 mediocre ones that may or may not churn, that you can't demonstrate true understanding of, and haven't delivered full value to
George: But
George: and it comes, yeah.
George: Okay.
George: it just seems like building the level sort of the demand side sales that we talked about, though, because we're talking about the customer satisfaction coming in at Level 3.
George: It seems like you've already built the product at level.
George: All of them are happening at once.
George: Yeah, yeah. So there's a causal layer to this. But you're not just going to be able to get to level 2 and be like, okay. Now, we're going to build something that people want because you won't be closing. You won't be building something that you can close right? The reality is you're going to bring something to market. It's going to be imperfect.
George: So we're talking about like this job stuff. I think that it is. It can be a letdown. And then I was talking about this where it's like, you're gonna bring something to market based on your present best understanding of what the customers struggling moments are. And then you're gonna get signal to be able to refine that. So her thing was like, I did a bunch of interviews. And we're learning this new thing based on how many people are buying our product and our job like, do I stick to the jobs? And it's like, no, your customers are telling you what they're struggling.
George: You have to start drilling down and narrowing in on that. Yeah, don't let up. Don't let up. You're not done. You figure out your job and you keep figuring out your job right? So the reality is, you're going to need that understanding. But like.
George: typically, listen, there are some exceptions to the rule. Typically, you will not ship something that, like people, are just like stupidly in love with. At 1st you need to be picking up on signal throughout. And one needs to beget the next needs to be get the next. And then you're gonna reach this point where, like, we shipped a product update 2 weeks ago. And like, I'm getting like death threats about it. And it's like
George: Whoa, like we didn't really like. I didn't realize he cared that, you know, and it's like kind of a weird thing. But like you start to kind of overcome that now again, like we're not everywhere like this is not where we're at with this, like we are still trying to lower and mitigate churn, but evidently like we have something that if something goes wrong, like people are going to kill us.
George: It's like
George: we. It's weird. And you don't realize when you turn past that threshold. So this is where you talk about systems iterating, continuing to learn what you just say, I don't know.
George: But to our point real quick, just to answer your question even more
George: when you build a building and you set up the scaffold, you're not just doing it for level one.
George: You set the scaffold for the whole thing. That's what we're talking about, so like. Don't think like, oh, it's just one and then 2, and then no, it's it's all of it. But you have to know where you stand and whether it is scaffolding, and most of it is, and one stacks upon another. Yeah.
George: anti fragility is going to be a lagging indicator. But like, that's kind of the buzzword. Good book recommendation, too. Yeah, it's
George: in in this framework.
George: looking at the concrete side. If one of these things happen for my business. Does that mean that my level 3 concrete is done? Or do I need to get all of them lined up? Because, okay, if that's the case, doesn't the case where customers right? If the product is threatened to go away, and the turn part of it as well, very dependent on the vertical that you're in. There is a you're presenting a false choice.
George: the work is never complete.
George: Yeah, again. Like II,
George: what you're dealing with today you'll be dealing with in 365 days.
George: It's about continuing iterating. Lift your head up, force through the trees, prioritize. Do the next thing
George: you measure you're a gamer, right?
George: You ever go platinum. Yes, yes, you know what I'm saying. So like that takes. That's like very few people go platinum.
George: Okay.
George: 100. The game. So it's a 100 game isn't to beat the game. It's to beat the game. And then thoroughly every single freaking thing you can do in the game like that they have available. I believe you so. But what I'm saying is for your business. What Jake is saying is is like, that's a multi decade long journey.
George: Yeah. And then this might mean
George: repositioning very aggressively to a point where people
George: really depend on you like the the increasing dependence to your thing is the value that we are constructing around amazon.com.
George: That's what I'm thinking. But like I don't think people do drive. Amazon went away. That's an amazing business, but I don't think it's you're completely wrong.
George: So
George: if if you remember, have you bought an Amazon kindle like, has anybody made an Amazon purchase in the last 7 days? Oh, my God!
George: The reality is that
George: this is where what we say, and what we do are different things. This is I'm trying to like, take this into what we're talking about. Also with the jobs conversation yesterday, where it's like I would say that, too, and it's like, fuck them like I don't like them at all. And then it's like, when's the last time that you made a purchase
George: 3 days ago. I have a grocery order waiting to be delivered on Sunday, and it's like.
George: Okay, do you start to see it? I feel the same way, obviously about spotify, I, fucking hate, spotify. I pay for it every single month, and the reason is that it accomplishes a very powerful social job that I can't recreate. Its sound quality sucks. I hate the way that they treat artists. I hate the way that they treat the discoverability of music. This is like I can go on rants on rants, on rants, and it's like
George: I. I can go on rants on rants, on rants and still pay my bill on the 17.th Yup. Me, too. So it's just it's the reality is
George: this is like there are signals.
George: that you will pick up on. It's the.
George: This is the way it's the way of the world. It's not the way that we talk about it
George: ready for level 4
George: alright.
George: So actually in that level of 3
George: businesses
George: with regards to what
George: like, for example, customers being seriously happy or have a right.
George: aren't they human?
George: Sure.
George: humans like like are happy. Right?
George: I bet you there's something your business is using right now that you guys would be so angry about if it stopped work. If it was slack. Github. Yes, code, whatever it is, there's businesses that have like that. There are customers of products
George: that if the product went away or fundamentally changed.
George: it would disrupt their business and make them very unhappy.
George: It's much more dangerous.
George: not really it. It depends how esoteric you want to get like. Listen.
George: we're splitting hairs. Basically, like like you got like happy customers is is not a a business to business or business to consumer
George: dilemma, especially since this is the perspective of a Vc. It's all the same. P. 500. It's all the same. That's right. This is not the perspective of Vc.
George: this is the reality. I know what he's saying, because I mentioned that because Mert and I crafted this with that in mind. Oh, oh, this is what you're saying, Yeah, but the reality is like, these are just like things that are going to need to happen to your business. Whether or not this is where, like from my perspective, the capital raises again, not the milestone.
George: So it's like, we're not. Gonna I'm not gonna pop bottles around that. I'm gonna pop bottles. When I sign my 105,000.
George: That's that's like what I'm
George: happy about. My team gets a lot, I think I'm you know, like this is kind of where there's balance. And curious. Honestly, if people end up behaving this way within their teams, my team is in cycle always where, like one of us is super high. One of us is like pessimistic. One of us is like, right in the middle. It's like constantly kind of in these things. So I'm like popping bottles about this shit last week. I'm so happy that people, my co-founder Savannah is.
George: Take it personally. Yeah, it was for her it wasn't. She's had a product.
George: It was less personal. It was, I can't
George: that. It's like, let's like.
George: so it's like it. It depends on
George: yeah, it definitely depends. But I just wanted to make respond to you. I went to this conference a week ago, and they're doing like pretty much the same thing as we do right on any scale. And they have their b 2 b and their customers went on stage telling testimonial, and that was absolutely exciting, because,
George: each one of them brought an energy on the stage. And you could see this things on b 2 b, and also B, 2 E like enterprises. And there there were people telling the stories and saying how much they were attached to their to their product, with distributed computing product and how much they couldn't do without it. So
George: it's definitely possible. And I also were kind of blown away like, are you using it as a tool where they actually are attached emotionally or like they really want it. I I would venture to guess at this stage. You are again, if you can build some love of customer product way, I would venture to guess that you're too in love with your product and not in love enough with your customer.
George: But like, look at that. Those are real journeys like, that's aspirational.
George: Yeah, I think that bottom dot point is the bottom line for many. You're adding so much value to your
George: customer that their business depends on you to do the thing that they need to make money. That's right, whatever it's gonna be for you guys, right? It's gonna be like
George: obvious that they need this. You guys are reviewing your marketing budget. You spend how much getting in people's inboxes that's ridiculous.
George: like
George: trivia compute that.
George: it's just like that. Yeah, this is where we're ultimately trying to get to
George: It's
George: see.
George: this thing is, there are tactics to get here, but it works so unbelievably well that I need one too. I want one, too. This comes up at your b 2 b product is somehow being floated at dinner parties. I don't know if anyone's ever been around when notions talked about like amongst. It's like a strange thing base camp like. Don't even get me fucking. Don't get me started. That's a church right like it's like you people are.
George: I guess I'm a pastor. You hear the way that people talk about this stuff? It isn't because it's like they. He's not on their payroll
George: like he doesn't owe them like it's that they've provided so much that he has a glowing sign of their logo in his home. I do have a neon base camp, so this super dope it is, it is. But like, I think also like
George: that is, that's where we're trying to go to. So like sales go up into the right. But they're unpredictable.
George: this is again talking about B, 2 B, 2 B. But there's a parallel distribution for among sales team. The more sales members you're you're adding more. So 2 x. The sales team 5 x the sales founder is so this is like in scaffolding. The founder is still going to be involved again. Now we're getting to the point where, like.
George: that's probably going to be in scaffolding if we're talking about when you're actually going to raise. But Bullet 3 is dangerous, because as soon as you read it there's a natural inclination to go. Oh, I need to not do that.
George: No, you need to do that. Yeah, you're not even close to not being able to do that. We're trying to lay out through this talk the entirety of the landscape.
George: We are reaching a point that I would again venture to say nobody in this room is near. If you, if you think you're a CEO who doesn't need to sell.
George: If your business continues to grow.
George: you will be replaced.
George: I'm just letting you know I've seen it happen many times.
George: so just keep that in mind. That's cool. Yeah. Sorry to cut you off.
George: so this is where, like you're putting your name out. There.
George: Is that like, are you saying it as a good thing or bad?
George: It's a symptom.
George: This is still in the scaffolding. Yeah, I mean, this is 99% of bad thing. Yeah. So just so, you know, like, if you say you're spending money on brand awareness, you don't even have a brand. Yeah, because you don't even have a business because you barely have customers. So what are you doing
George: that's showing is not repeatable. It's not repeatable. You do have to like again. If we're talking like in reality, they're causal steps
George: to this thing now, it's not linear, but like they're kind of set, and there might be like kind of a moment. Where, like.
George: you're getting?
George: Yeah, you're you're getting a name out. It doesn't really. Yeah. It's not. This isn't something that's aspiration. That basically is a symptom of not having a reach product market fit. That's right. If you're having to spend all of this because it means you don't know you're just trying to spend the right thing, I think, in general, and like I can kind of make a note for this next time like
George: this. We are now at a point where again to say it bluntly, none of you are near. And so it's gonna like.
George: I, that's the most dangerous thing, because it's like, I think that it's way easier to be empathetic with Facebook as a company than it is to do it with people that are 2 steps in front of you
George: like that should 2 steps in front of me seems impossible. But, like Facebook, I can see, we were a billion dollar company. I know what that's gonna be like, so
George: yeah
George: for you, because you're doing like, were you at a point where you were physically replying to like reddit comments, basic comments and people complaining about not
George: you're not. Yeah, you're not too good for that. But both of you should be doing.
George: Yeah, I think they're building a company to help out with that. But like outside of that, like
George: most revenue, this is again a b 2 b specific comment. But like.
George: if, like, 80% of your revenue comes from one client like this is something that is important. There are kind of traps that we can talk about. Quick side. Note how many Ed tech companies. Have you studied or done case studies on to understand their early like like go to market traction like tactics? How many, 6? And how many are there? How many companies are there?
George: Okay, I want to add a 0 to that.
George: That's what I'm saying. So you're like, Reddit, we need lunar like Bro, like you gotta go way deeper. You got to go way harder. You will need to know a lot more about all the possible playbooks and tactics. I'm tossing this up on the screen. But, like Dominique, I swear to God, not for you. So this is something that I did as an exercise a while back again, like when Neil's talking about
George: okay, what is it actually like? I'm on stage to reduce something to a sentence. What was what was necessary from my perspective, it's burned through it. Yeah. So just give it a little taste. So here's here's what I said. I was like.
George: listen. I need to have a comprehensive understanding of how these people go to market. In particular, I want to know how they close their 1,000 sales. Because, like I basically for our business, this is now more particular. It will probably be true only for tutor me. But this probably won't be true. But there's a version of this that every single one of you can do. It's right. It's I needed to know. How do I get from 0 to a thousand. How do I? Convincing
George: 0 to a thousand was just like I need to be at a thousand K customers to be hitting, hitting the trail.
George: then a thousand. I need a case. How do I get from a thousand to 10,000 10,000, a hundred 1,000? Yeah, that actually came that this will take a different look for most of you. Many. It's how do I get 10 million arr convincingly? How do I get to 100 million arr convincingly. That's there are different versions. But like, this is sort of so who is this made for?
George: So? Yes, you see how many slides there are? This is so, okay, you ready for this, so we can't go through it now, because we've got to finish the deck. But you need to like flip through it real quick.
George: Here is basically the yeah, the reality. The reality became again for us. It's 11,000 10,000. 100,000. We got that advice from Jason Calacanis? Yeah. And it ended up being highly impactful and very useful for us. So then the question is like, Okay, how do you do it? Well, I want to look at the best in class educational habit driven startup. So it's something that we are. We're also a digital cooking company. We're also Gen. Z. Focus. Let's go great. Let's go.
George: Here are the objectives. So that, like all right, when I would have it on a monitor. It's like, this is what I'm trying to do. And I would go. And I would do research. For example, I would look into headspace. This is what headspace does. This is targeting. This is the information about them. Here's their branding. Here's what the experience is like. Here's the notification strategy. Here's the social media strategy. Here's what the customers say about them. Here's how they got to their 1,000 users that additional marketing strategies.
George: website, alternative revenue streams at this point to be able to actually ask, What do you think you can do? Because I know this is publicly available, but it sounds like, maybe you had some insight when you say publicly available, what do you mean?
George: So this is how headspace got their 1,000 years. Yeah. But how strong are you like, what are you willing to do? Like? Some of this information is written in some podcasts, some of it isn't.
George: So find someone who worked at the company early on who was involved, and talk to them.
George: do whatever it takes to learn the information you need to know to be successful.
George: show up at their like office.
George: find them on the street.
George: You know what I mean. Like, how badly do you? Yeah, how bad do you want it? I'll
George: let me argue this yeah
George: plus one. But Google is a really good start, a lot of the information. But like like. But even still but don't be lazy. Chat Gpt is going to tell me how they got the 1st 1,000. No, yeah, yeah, that's come on now.
George: But like it's yeah, I mean, also, because you actually have to be able to internalize this. But like.
George: yeah, no, yeah, it doesn't like
George: get the information. But do do research, I mean, don't ask something to generate some like hallucination or hallucination at you. Hey? You got 2 min, 2 min on this right, all right. So great. Then you have to lingo overview customer marketing website, alternative revenue streams. You have the same masterclass. You can do the same exact thing and move on
George: the digital cooking apps. This is not the next thing. For tasty. You do the next thing for Robin Hood. Oh, wow! This shit took me forever. But in my mind right now you're a consumer app. There's only 2 b 2 c companies in here. We're all b 2 b, and we can't get this information, what do we do get it? Okay, it's like, yeah. And then it was like, All right, how do I actually pull this down? Here's the
George: because then it's like I'm going to turn this around. The reality is like, I don't know that my team needs to read 100 slides and then internalize those 100 slides to the same degree that I internalized it by reading, by by doing that actual research. So how do I make it such that I'll be Punch, you know. Here's a priority order one through 3, 1. We should be doing it right now. 2. It should be on the horizon. 3. It probably doesn't make sense for us. Here's a marketing exercise. Here's the slide that is pulled from.
George: I got 5 pages worth marketing exercises. I got a social strategy. That
George: did really well for us. And then here are things that I saw. We're gonna get through it and then take the question, oh, what's up?
George: When did you decide to do that?
George: Like what I'm I'm searching with the trigger like, what made you do that? This was pre-programmed
George: before tech start. Yeah, this is, this was before techstars. It was
George: like, we can dig into it like, I think maybe found a short just because we're pressed for time. So I don't know we we would actually need to do like a little bit
George: deeper digging. But, like I can tell you, the top level is that we didn't have money like we didn't really paying for our stuff. And so it's like, Okay, well, what can I do? I can gain a really deep demand, side understanding of what we do, I can gain a really deep supply side understanding of what are the tools at our disposal.
George: This is like that. This is a supplier.
George: So this work, this works well, I want 1, 2 for
George: highest level sales. Forecast is mathematical function. This is a financial model performance is normally distributed with fairly tight bands. So where are you performing within the range of your standard deviation? Sales. Leadership is in place you're marketing our eyes. Profitable customer, and revenue is distributed equally or or more equally. You're not getting again that 80% from that one client or the 2 fine. It's like, no, we're we're we're moving like we're signing people, and we're growing pretty quickly.
George: you need to reach all of these in order to reach product market fit as it's been defined in this thing. Again, this is this is just meant to be a call to action. But work on all these early stage one level makes the next easier. Makes next easier makes next easier. You don't need to have concrete on level one to move up. Set the scaffolding up to start working on level 2. But again, these things will build on one another. But you can't build it based on this guy
George: usual
George: and so start with scaffolding work with concrete. I think, like the huge one another takeaway that I'm trying to like. Just keep swimming like next step, next step, next step, and then also how are you walking? Is is the big thing. But vision, product, customer success into predictable sales.
George: Do this exercise, we'll distribute the deck, talk to talk with your assess yourselves, have an honest conversation about where you stand, look in the mirror and and see where you're at in terms of fundability.
George: Good stuff you like.
George: Okay, we'll take 3 questions and then we'll wrap if people do need to head. Well, we have to give them a bio break, and then we have to talk about the data as the next step. So we have another thing right after this. We have another thing right after this, but I want people to be able to go to the bathroom real quick. Any questions before we break.
George: Yeah, we're not playing games here. This is week 6. It's time to go.
George: Come on.
George: master class, like, if anyone's like, oh.
George: so such an important thing. Don't throw money at it. If you're spending money to sell right now, it's going to be unpaid customers. It's going to be like that is as dangerous. Don't advertise online. It's a mistake like it's an easy way to get rejected to take any
George: initial investor call. If I know you're spending money on marketing, and you don't have sales like I'm I'm good like we're good
George: I don't know what I mean. He was a deloitte consultant. Oh, that's not why, no, that's not even a good thing. That was a diss. That was a direct dis. No, it's a dis sorry, but it is
George: the indirect competitors as well. That's what was brilliant. Again, like we talk a lot about demand. It's going to be the most important thing to understand what the lean demand is in your market, but that just
George: the 5th step of that is that it generates requirements that you can then bring to your own. That doesn't mean that you also have an excuse not to have a supply side understanding. Okay, go. Take about a break. 3 min, and we're going to come back. And Fabio, what's up? I mean, I just want to ask again, because this was a question that I asked before. And we're like, What about again, like, so do we have to be like
George: it shortly is implied that profitability is still possible, like even at some point do we need that or.